h1. Manybots Open Server

h2. About

"Manybots":http://manybots.com is a platform to log and visualize all your activities. 
It utilizes "Activity Streams":http://activitystrea.ms and "OAuth":http://oauth.net to enable you to develop a cloud of applications that capture and analyze your (or anybody's, or anything's) activities.
You can run your own Manybots Server or create an account at "http://manybots.com":http://manybots.com

h2. Installation

Manybots Open Server is built with "Ruby on Rails":http://rubyonrails.org. It's fairly easy to get it up an running, even if you're not a Rails developer. 

Applications for Manybots can be written in any language since they interact through a json HTTP API.

h3. Install Ruby, Rubygems and Rails 3

You'll need Ruby 1.9.2 and Rails 3. You can start here: "http://rubyonrails.org/download":http://rubyonrails.org/download

h3. Configuration

* Edit "config/manybots_config.yml" to set your settings (if you're unsure, leave as is)
* Run 'bundle install' (or just 'bundle')
* Run 'rake db:migrate'
* Run 'rake db:seed'
* Run 'rails server'

h3. Authentication 

Manybots uses Devise to manage authentication. By default, account registration is enabled. There is no "admin", so just go ahead and create an account for yourself.

By default, authentication with external accounts is turned off but you can turn it on. 
To do it, enter your "Janrain Engage":http://www.janrain.com/products/engage app information in "config/initializers/devise.rb" and uncomment the rpx_connectable bit in "app/models/user.rb".

h2. Documentation, Support

* API documentation "http://manybots.com/api":http://manybots.com/api
* Mailing list: "http://groups.google.com/group/manybots-dev":http://groups.google.com/group/manybots-dev

h2. Credits

Manybots Server was created by "Alexandre L. Solleiro":http://webcracy.org.

Thank you to "Ruben Fonseca":http://0x82.com for early code contribution!

h2. License

The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2010 Alexandre L. Solleiro <alex@webcracy.org>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.